SUPA (Shared Unified Policy Automation)
Target Area: OPS 


Description of Working Group:

Network operators are faced with networks of increasing size and complexity while trying to improve their quality and availability, as more and more services depend on them. Programmatic ways to configure networks, often called software-defined, are considered by many network operators in order to shift the balance in their favor.

Automating the way of exposing a view of the network to applications may provide significant improvements in configuration agility, error detection and uptime for operators. However the real value behind central configuration schemes lies within the possible simplification through models provided by such systems to applications and network services running above them (on the so-called northbound side). Well-designed models are able to provide a wide range of granularity for various applications and network services needs, from the lower-level physical network to high-level application services. 

Although several organizations outside of the IETF have defined various schemes for the configuration of network devices and specific network controllers, none of them offer a vendor-neutral standardized way for applications and network services to transmit their needs to controllers. The SUPA (Shared Unified Policy Automation) working group will work on the definition of such as standardized interface for applications and network services to communicate with network controllers of all types.

The specification of the interface towards end user apllications is initially not in the scope of SUPA. In particular, as starting point, SUPA will only focus on network services, which are enhanced Operational Support System (OSS) like services that help a communication service provider to monitor, control, analyze and manage a communication network. The systems that are runniung such network services are denoted in this document as Network Service Systems. 
Each network service can be represented by a classified application based POLICY model, since it can model the group of demands which are SHARED and UNIFIED and are coming from a bundle of applications that impose similar requirements on the communication network. 

The main goal of SUPA is to provide a way for applications and for network services to specify SHARED application based POLICIES to the network infrastructure using a simplified view of the network. This can be realized by: 
(1) modeling the network infrastructure as an simplified network graph using a modeling language such as YANG, (2) transporting model instances either using NETCONF or RESTCONF and (3) providing guidelines on AUTOMATICALLY mapping policies to attributes of the network graphs.

Although some IETF working groups have started work relating to the description of various topologies such as I2RS (L3and routing topologies), ALTO (cost maps), SFC (service chain), none of these groups aim at offering truly generic topology models for the standard northbound interface.
SUPA will work on defining interfaces based on the concept of network graph, an entity describing an arbitrary topology of nodes and links at any level of granularity. Such a graph may describe, for example, a physical topology, a service topology or the relationships between datacenters. Any network topology data models or policy models that have been defined (or are being defined) within the IETF will be reused in SUPA as much as possible.
In addition to the above, policies may be defined and applied to a network graph. These application based policies are actions or constraints generated by Network Service Systems. They are then mapped from the network graph instance into specific network management policies toward network components. 
   

Work items for SUPA include:

1) The definition of a standardized model for a network graph, using YANG. This model may be used to describe topologies at any functional layer, from physical networks to network services. 
Any network topology data models or policy models that have been defined (or are being defined) within the IETF will be reused in SUPA as much as possible.

2) The definition and standardization of a number of basic policy and data models using network graphs. These might include, but are not limited to L3VPNs, datacenters, traffic engineering, implementation of IPv6 transition mechanism and their enforcement to users.  

3) Guidelines on how to use NETCONF (or RESTCONF) authentication and authorization mechanisms to achieve protection and isolation

4) Guidelines for automatic mapping policies to attributes of the network graphs.


The following items are out of the SUPA scope:

o) specification of the network management and controlling policies and their associated device configuration models


Milestones:

o) Produce 'Problem Statement and Use Cases' as an Informational RFC.

o) Produce a document specifying the YANG models for a generic multi-layer network graph, as Protocol Specification' Standards Track RFC.

o) Produce several documents describing different views of a communication network by using the network graph model defined above, which includes policy and data models, as Protocol Specifications' Standards Track RFCs.

o) Produce a document on defining the SUPA NETCON/YANG or RESTCONF (or RESTCONF/YANG) containers, as Protocol Specification' Standards Track RFC.
    
o) Produce a document that provides the guidelines on using NETCONF (or RESTCONF) authentication and authorization mechanisms to achieve security protection and isolation' as an Informational RFC.

o) Produce a document that provides the guidelines for for automatic mapping policies to attributes of the network graphs.

